### Introduction
Welcome to the text version of the Condenced History of Equestria. I wrote all of this down because of many reasons: It made it easier to remember details, easier to search and look through when I forget, and something to read while you [watch/listen to the video version](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMdfq1crE1ouWq5s2kU3wmTGdFFvxj58u).
```
pc - Post Cataclysm (time since the Cataclysm)
ce - Celestial era (time since the First Celestial Era)
```
# Volume 1: The beginning of civilization
## The Grazing Age (unknown - 0pc)
The first records of pony history shows that ponies all started out as the earthbound pony we still see today, loving the grassy fields and the ground they walked on. But this life was not for everypony, as tribes broke off into groups of interest. The ponies that would one day become pegasi, dreamed of taking to the sky and grew wings. Another group broke off into the magical forests and grew magically endowed horns. After an unknown amount of time a kingdom of Alicorns emerged. This was a highly advanced society of tall ponies with powerful magic, and they had the same defining features as the three pony tribes. The body strength of an earthpony, the wings like a pegasus and horn like a unicorn. While the tribes were still roaming around in nature, they came into contact with these legendary ponies. The Alicorns brought with them writing, music and mathematics, and they segregated the tribes into the three tribes, teaching them each the skills that would one day define them. To the pegasi they taught weather controll, the unicorns they taught how to control the magic in their horns and earthponies they taught agriculture. To the three tribes, the alicorns seemed like gods, and so willingly submitted to their rule. Due to the lack of archeological information from this early age, it's debated if the Alicorns were truly as wise and benevolent as the legends portray them as, but there is no doubt of their influence in early pony development.

Their influence came to a devastating halt when a terrible event took place. An enormous discharge of magical energy shook the earth, turing night into day, known as The Cataclysm. It was felt into the farthest reaches of the known world and when it finally subsided the Alicorns were gone. Only a few relics remained and the ponies were in utter despair at their disappearance. They now had to rule themselves, and create civilization anew. This marks the beginning of what is now known as The Age of Rebirth.

## The Age of Rebirth (0pc)
The cataclysm had different effects on the different tribes. 
Pegasi used to keep to themselves, but on the day of the cataclysm they decided to work together. Amassing their cloud homes together into an enormous overcloud and pushed it as far from the disaster as they could manage. They unintentionally created the largest stormfront known to ponykind, even to this day. With no other choice, they started splitting into teams with different tasks and started breaking off segments to form into proper clouds. This took them several years, but eventually they started to see the merit of working together, and so started to shape the clouds into something bigger, the great cloud city Hapenopolis. Eventually the previous team leaders formed the Cloud Senate that prioritized tasks. Groups of pegasi would patrol the airspace, while others would return down to the ground to raid for supplies, soon they had to defend their borders against other fliers such as Griphons and hippogriffs. They became more and more focused on military and formed an enormous army called the Pegasus Legion which initially was purely for defence but over time began to engange in many wars to dominate airspace. Even with their numerous losses due to wars, the pegasus tribe could be argued to have lost the least, which can be demonstrated with the ruins of Hapenopolis which remains standing even today.

Unicorns had learned most of their early magic from the Alicorns, and so had near worshipped them. But instead of coming together in the sudden absence of their masters, their society crumbled, dividing into bloodlines each ruling their own territory. Some families and their unique magic was lost forever. But there was one thing that unified them, a duty considered sacred. After the Alicorns had disappeared, the sun and moon had been thrown out of cycle, the unicorns took this to mean that, without the Alicorns to control them, they would continue to rise and set eratically, sometimes even appearing in the sky together. A cult of the most talented unicorn magicians of each bloodline took it upon themselves to correct this and created the spells that are used by the princesses even to this day. The were called The order of the horn. The order would also bring in orphans from bloodlines that were lost, and it was an orphan such as this that would become the unicorn's greatest king. Alloy was an orphan raised by the order, which mostly consisted of noble children and other orphans that watched as their families tore eachother to pieces while they worked together to controll the sun and the moon. It was young Alloy that convinced the order of their own power and united them as a force to put an end to the feuds. Alloy turned the magicians of the order into knights, united for peace and equality among the unicorns. The noble ponies were no match to the magical power of the order, and at last the war came to an end. Alloy was appointed the first king of the Metal Dynasty, which would reign for 11 generations.

Earthponies also fell on hard times after the cataclysm, but unlike the other two tribes, the unicorns had learned the value of unity long ago. The Alicorns had brought them civilization, culture and agriculture, but the loss of their teachers didn't affect the earthponies directly. Rather the catastrophic effects on the earth itself, the cataclysm had changed the land. Ancient rivers had turned dry, forests become deserts, and crops washed away in floods. There was tragedy, famine and the sky itself seemed to have gone mad. But the earthponies endured, their bond with the land was strong and taught them what they needed to heal the scars of disasters, until once again their crops once again grew in abundance. By the time King Alloy had come to power, the earthponies gentle care had restored most of the land. But they would soon have to deal with another problem, raiders. The raiding parties were usually part of the Pegasus legion, but occasionally there was also groups of griphons and hippogriffs, even mosters would venture out of their lair for a chance at their precious harvest. They were being assaulted from every direction. Having nowhere else to turn, they applied to the unicorn king Alloy for aid. And the king agreed, taking the earthpony land under his protection and effectively bringing them under unicorn rule. This agreement remained amiable for at least a few generations, but as unicorn arrogance took over, the earthponies were reduced to the level of servants and enmity towards their unicorn protectors fostered. This led to the Age of Strife and the three wayed war.

## The Age of Strife (189 pc)
After years of building up their forces, the pegasi launched a campaign of dominance. They were led by the brilliant military leader Arcing Thunder the Great, attacking and overrunning the griphon kingdom to the north, as well as attacking early Saddle Arabia. Surging with confidence from his early victories, Arcing Thunder made a direct assault at the unicorn kingdom, and the protected earthponies. He focused first on attacking the earthponies, intent on controlling the crops and force the unicorns to surrender out of starvation. To counter Unicorns developed a new type of magic in the use of Keystones, magically endowed gems and statues placed in key locations to create independent spell circles. These keystones were able to cast protective barriers over the field without a unicorn to activate them. They could be set to only let specific ponies through, the perfect defence against the pegasus legion.

But this invention also allowed for rebellion. It was a particular stallion by the name of Dapper doo who approached the unicorns with a just initiative so only earthponies were allowed through. Flattering them with saying how such splendid nobles shouldn't dirty themselves by working on such a lowly farm. He presented himself as a fool with a cheerful smile and walleyed stare. The unicorns were so convinced by his pretended stupidity that they easily agreed, never realizing that by doing so, they were effectively keeping themselves out of the earthpony lands as well. And so the earthpony rose in revolt against the unicorn lords protected from them by the same magic they'd created. And while the unicorns could take down the keystone barriers, but that would cost effort and horsepower they couldn't spare without weakening the defences against the legion. Even moreso, taking down the barriers would leave the crops unprotected, which all three tribes depended on for food. It was a perfect stalemate and the beginning of a war that would last several decades.

---
# Volume 2: Starswirl, Equestria and the Crusades
## The treaty of Stalliongrad (227 pc)
The three wayed war was approaching it's 4th decade, a certain unicorn stallion began to make a name for himself, Starswirl the Bearded. Though not a noble, he was immensly powerful and conducted research on many powerful spells. Starswirl refused to aid the unicorns monarchy in the three wayed war and instead kept to his own research. He distanced himself from other ponies as much as possibel, all except for a war-orphaned unicorn filly that he took as an apprentice under his protection: Clover the Clever. The orphan was understandably had strong feelings about the war and wanted to end it and as she matured, the two had many arguments about the matter. Eventually it was the recklessness of his apprentice that forced Starswirl to act.
On one of their many journeys across the land, they came upon a particularly fierce battle where the keystone barrier had failed. The fighting had spilled into the streets, endangering everypony who lived there. The apprentice recklessly ran in through the battlefield to protect the young foals from the horrors of war. Fearing for the life of his apprentice, Starswirl at last stepped forward, and using his immense powers brought the fighting to a halt, and on the spot forced the tribe leaders to come to a non-negotiable peace treaty by literally bullying them into it. This was known as The Treaty of Stalliongrad.

The treaty allowed the ponies to live without conflict, but sadly the relationship between Starswirl and his apprentice was not so easily mended. While Clover the Clever would become a celebrated magician in her own right, the relationship she shared with her master was forever strained. Starswirl remains the most promimently documented magician in all of this era, the princeses have even dedicated an entire wing in the Canterlot Arcives to his life's work. Earthponies required the pegasus and unicorn to manage the weather and sunlight, and everyone required the earthponies to provide food. They worked together out of necessity, and at their exchanges were very cold, each festering hatred for the others. It wasn't long before the world around them became as cold as their hearts.

A terrible blizzard came and destroyed the crops, the pegasi couldn't do anything about the ice and wind, and the sun was hidden behind a dark layer of clouds. They all blamed one and other at the tribal summit, the only thing that prevented another war was the blizzard. The leaders of the tribes began to seek a new place to live. The leaders eventually bumped into eachother in this new and fertile land, and started fighting with eachother, only to bring down the blizzard ontop of them. Stuck in a cave and faced by their own inevitable end they finally put aside their differences and creating a magic spark, which drove away the windigos and ended the blizzard. And thus the nation of Equestria was founded.

## The birth of Equestria (297 pc)
There was a lot of work to be done to try to unite the tribes, but the leaders began slowly. Beginning with small groups of equal amount of followers of each pony race to establish towns in a new land which is now considered to be central Equestria. This type of village spread to all the outline territories. Eventually all ponies of all three tribes could be found all across equestria. High Pony Council a government fashioned after the cloud senate of Hapanopolis where the tribal leaders listened to concerns of delegates to solve problems. 
Unfortunately, unicorn nobles were unhappy with having to contribute to society, they believed themselves entiled to the lands and tithes they once collected. Of all the nobles angered by this, none were as vocal as Prince Pyrite, a distant relative and suitor of Princess Platinum. Platinum served as one of the delegates at the high pony council while Pyrite was plotting rebellion. Pyrite gathered together all the malcontent nobles to create an independent land with Pyrite himself as king. Pyrite was not a very good planner however. While the nobles were preemptively celebrating their victory, the peasantry disagreed. When the united armies of equestria arrived to lay siege, his "subjects" happily turned Pyrite over to Princess Platinum and the other equestrian founders. While Pyrite's defection may not be as memorable, "Fool's gold rebellion" is well remembered.

Several generations after the rebellion a different kind of revolution took place. Now with a unified nation, their curiosity about the world beyond their borders began to increase. Alicorns were also reconsidered as dieties, with their vanished kingdom was interpreted as a sort of lost holy land. The Crusades were a series of large scale quests into the lands beyond equestria in search of this holy land, as well as equestria's real contact with outside civilizations. They brought back trade of new goods, ideas and species, and sometimes brought in things like decease and war.

## The Crusades (411 pc)
The first land to be discovered was a prosperous and magically advanced kingdom to the north, filled with ponies, not unlike earthponies, but possessed a gemstone radiance and magic, The Crystal Empire. When Equestria was divided by war, the Empire watched sadly from afar, but even Arcing Thunder the Great didn't dear challenge the empire without magical aid. Because the crystal empire was protected by the great power of the Crystal King, a mysterious pony that almost never appeared in public even to his own people, but have managed to rule for centuries. But in the wake of the cataclysm, he had created a haven for those ponies that had come to him in dispair. When the crusaders finally made contact with them, they were welcomed peacefully with friendship and guidance, but the Crystal King never once revealed himself. And Equestria was no closer to the lost kingdom of the Alicorns.

The next crusade set out was not nearly as successful. Saddle arabia was an arid and unfriendly land, far to the south, past the badlands. Its inhabitants built their lives around the few rivers and oasises that were found, and they were made up of horses, instead of ponies. The saddle arabians welcomed the crusaders even though they seemed uncomfortable with the presence of unicorns and magic, but tolerated them for their trade. Things took a turn for the worse when they expressed interest in finding alicorn relics. In the desert there was supposedly a temple built by the alicorns. But when a small group of explorers attempted to go there, they were forced back and executed for trespassing on holy ground. The High Pony Council was outraged at such an act, demanding they explain themselves, but the Saddle Arabians had already started forcibly eject the crusaders from their land. This started a war that would last 7 years.

A mare by the name of Enduring Patience took it upon herself to end the war. A former soldier in the Equestrian Army, she entered alone into Saddle Baghdad and the palace of the Sultan to learn his reason for executing the explorers. She presented herself to the sultan and requested the reason for the execution of the explorers but was denied. Due to being a lone earthpony the Sultan saw her as no threat, she was allowed to stay. Everyday, Patience would petition the king for his reasons, and everyday she would be rejected. The populus tolerated her presence but she was often abused and mistreated by them as a scapegoat for the war. Seeing the torment she was suffering at the hands of the sultans subjects, the Sultan's daughter Princess Mirage moved Patience into the palace where she got to learn about Saddle Arabian culture and beliefs. And as she befriended Princess Mirage, she too began to plead with her father to talk to the mare. Seeing her determination eventually convinced her father to have an audience with Patience, allowing her to learn that the Saddle arabians hadn't been as lucky as the ponies up north. In Saddle Arabian history, they too had fallen under Alicorn rule in the past. Their land had once been a flourishing paradise, that had been used by the Alicorns for magical experimentation, over time turning it into the arid desert it is now. And the Saddle Arabians, who were further behind the favored equestrians in cultural advancements, had been used as slave labor by the Alicorns, watching helplessly as their beautiful paradise drained of all life by Alicorn spells. The temple in the heart of the desert was the only remaining structure of the Alicorns rule, sealed by powerful magic. To the Arabians was a cursed place, a reminder of their terrible past. They were afraid that the unicorn's magic would breach the walls of the cursed temple and awaken the horrors that had bound them in the past. Patience returned to the council to tell them of what she had learned. In exchange for leaving the desert temple alone, the Sultan issued a personal apology to Equestria and her people. While it would be centuries before good relations would be established between the two countries, at least this war had been brought to a peaceful conclusion. All thanks to a friendship between a simple earthpony mare, and an Arabian princess.

---
# Volume 3: Descent into chaos
## The kingdom of Griphonia (434 pc)
We begin immediatly following the resolution of the war with Saddle Arabia. Equestria herself suffered a devastating blow to her confidence as a nation it would be almost four decades before they recovered enough from the war to even consider venturing out into the world again. Instead they decided to focus on relations with their closest neighbor, with whom they've had contact with even before Equestria's founding. At one point they had fallen under the dominion of Arcing Thunder the great, The kingdom of Griphonia. The griphons originally fell under pegasus domination, they were a primitive society that rutinely engaged in brief conflicts with the pegasi, until the expansion of the Legion dominated their airspace. Then during the aftermath of the Three wayed war they took the chance and broke off into a new nation, establishing the republic of Griphonia, they would not establish a royal line for many decades. With the forming of Equestria however, both young nations saw the opportunity to be gained from an alliance.

Because of their years serving with the Pegasus Legion, they had adopted many cultural aspects of pony life, and while relations were initially somewhat tense between them, they eventually found a balance that worked well for both. But what cemented the relationship was the unearthing of Griphonia's long lost history. Before their domination by the pegasi, Griphonia had been a nation of scattered peoples, their entire society built on survival. Much like the pony tribes of Equestria, the griphons had suffered from a disaster that had forced them to flee from their ancestral homeland, starving and desperate. It had reduced them to their most basic needs, but those survivors had brought with them mementos of the past. Antiques telling of an advanced and powerful society, dating even earlier than the alicorn kingdom. They offered these relics to Equestrian scholars in hopes of divulging the truth, for they had lost the means to understand them. 

As it turned out, these were just fragments of a larger whole. Scattred throughout Equestria, Griphonia, and many other nations, there are sites of ruins that predate even the Alicorn Kingdom. They are remnants of an ancient and powerful civilization, one that is believed to have spanned into the unknown territories of the world. It was made up of multiple species, griphons and dragons among them, and ruled by another kind we've only ever seen depicted on ruin walls. But this grand utopia was destroyed by an internal force. And their people scattered, reduced to their most primitive cultures. The griphons called it the long lost kingdom of Eridu, and while it is hinted that the alicorns were also once a part of this lost civilization, the griphons only posessed a handful of relics, and not enough could be divulged from them to tell very much. And the ruins that had been found relating to Eridu would not be discovered until closer to modern times. Nevertheless, the relics gave the two nations something to bond over. Discussions about history sparked many debates, and it was not long before talk of a multicultural university for study was broached. Both Griphonia and Equestria saw the benefit of such a place and joined hooves and claws in a cooperative effort to bring it about, establishing the very first Equestrian Institute of Higher Learning. 

It was during this time that an unusual ship sailed into equestria's western coast, badly damaged from a squall, the sailors manning the ship were as unique as the vessel. They were Kirin an equine species of the orient with cloven hooves, tufted tails, and antler like horns capable of magic, much like unicorns. The ponies of equestria naturally took it upon themselves to nurse the kirin survivors back to health, all while learning how to communicate with them. What the Kirin told them was that they had come from far across the sea, beyond even the great vortex known as Eternity's crossing. It was a land of high peaks and beautiful cherry trees, with leadership divided amongst a council of five rulers. The kirin had been on an erand for their rulers but they had sailed too far out from the coast and were swept up into the endless storms of the vortex. The distance was just too great, not even a pegasus could fly beyond eternity's crossing, and their powers of weather manipulation didn't work on the storm. It seemed their Kirin friends would never be able to return home. But the Kirin survival had restored the spirit of adventure to Equestria's explorers. And they inspired a whole new era of naval development. For the sake of their new friends, they would have to build a ship that could survive eternity's crossing and safely return them home. Of course it took a very long time, and the first attempts were unsuccessful, but the Kirin had been moved by the Equestrians attempts to help them and so gave their efforts as well. The very last vessel to make the attempt, was the construction of Equestrian enginuity and Kirin wisdom. It bore the name of Mikomi, the kirin word for Hope, and was manned by a crew of both races, as the Kirin were determined to go home. The Mikomi sailed into eternity's crossing and vanished, the venture eventually presumed to have failed. Nothing more were to be heard of the Mikomi, for several decades.

The age saw the emergence of several great explorers such as Astrolade and Sunstone, their discoveries allowed Equestria to reach a new level of technology and brought forth the emergence of science. Studies of Alchemy, Chemistry and Botany began in various labs across Equestria. But few ponies were as dedicated to science, as Galipeio. Galipeio was a noble born unicorn with extensive interest in foreign magics, alchemy and pre-alicorn history. He posessed many of Starswirl's tomes, some of which are still stored in the archives. Galipeio is best known for his contributions to astronomy, but Galipeio's fascination with Starswirl's research continued into his later years, and drove him to seek out alicorn relics. He was convinced that the alicorns had left a sealed temple somewhere in equestria, and that it too must contain an immense power he searched throughout his entire life, venturing into the forgotten corners of Equestria. On one such venture, he disappeared. He came back almost a year later, but he was changed. Whatever he had found had driven tragically mad and he spent the rest of his days cared for in his home. And while it was unknown at the time, Galipeio's return, and insane ramblings were a sign of things to come.

## The age of Chaos
There is great argument among historians about the age of Chaos, before discord's reemergance, many didn't even believe it had happened. Records from that time period are few and most are complete gibberish. At first it was thought that a sort of plauge had hit equestria, resulting in widespread madness, much like what had happened to Galipeio. The reality is that Discord's magic had influenced everything, and even written words were unreliable, spells binding the relics of the era and documents are so strong that they defy modern archeological spells. Because of that, we have no clear definition of how long the age of chaos lasted. It could've been a year or a hundred years or maybe even longer, most of what's written now is just speculation, it might be that we'll never know what really happened. It's theorized that Galipeio was Discord's first victim, and that he had released the spirit of disharmony. At first his actions were small pranks, rivers of fruit punch, dandelions the size of apple trees, perhaps he was testing out his powers, and once he was certain of his strength, Discord unleashed his full might. One of the few incidents that there is at least some documented confirmation, is Discord's appearance before the High Pony Council. The Council had gathered do discuss the terrible events sweeping across Equestria, desperate to find a cause or solution. In the middle of the argument, Discord appeared right in the middle of the meeting in a display of his power. He fired the Council and literally launching them from the building, as if they had been fireworks. Discord never openly declared himself ruler, and his reasons for focusing on Equestria in particular are unfathomable. But nopony were safe from his tricks, the citizens became isolated and agressive with eachother, Equestria was no longer a peaceful place to live. While we may not know the details of Discord's rule, we do know how it came to an end.

In the midst of Discord's reign, the sun and moon stopped obeying his wild power, and with the appearance of two alicorn mares, wielding a great and ancient magic, Discord was defeated and sealed in stone. The ponies of Equestria approached the two mares with such gratitude that they pleaded for the two to become their rulers. While they were at first hesitant, seeing that they were in desperate need of leadership after the loss of their council. The Alicorns agreed, and from that moment forwards, Princess Celestia and Princess Luna have ruled over us. The beginning of their diarchy is also used as the marker for the era known as the Celestial Renaissance

---
# Volume 4: Reign of Shadows
## The Celestial Renaissance (1 ce)
The first order of the renaissance was rebuilding Equestria. Discords reign had left everything in a terrible state, and wild magic still posessed much of the land. The Princesses used their great powers, which we now know to be the Elements of Harmony, to reestablish order. The Chaos receeded and the princesses then comissioned the erection of a temple, intent on containing the wild magic themselves. And so long as they recided there the forest around them was peaceful. And though it was intended to be a sacred building, this magnificent structure eventually became the Palace of the Royal Pony Sisters. Following the sealing of discord, the princesses then began rebuilt the the high pony council to advice them. Though now its rulers, Luna and Celestia were still foreign to Equestria, they followed the guidance of its elders, those who still remembered how Equestria used to be. Through their wise instruction the nation slowly to regained its greatness. Many advancements they had achieved had been lost during discord's rule, almost crippling equestrian civilization. Nevertheless, the princesses had inspired a new age of prosperity and understanding, they struggled to regain their advances, and many prominent artists emerged. And while it would be some time before they would regain the level of technology they had known before, within a century, peace had returned to equestria.

## Crystal Alliance (59 ce)
One of the princesses early successes was the alliance formed with the Crystal Empire. While reestablishing the kingdom, the princesses received a personal invitation from the Crystal King, for a private audience. It was during this meeting that he finally revealed himself to be an Alicorn. Alicorns are an exceptionally rare species of pony, and up to this point in history thought to only exist in legend. The appearance of the royal sisters had been shocking enough, but for the Crystal King to have also been one was astounding. Because of their uniqueness, the sisters formed a strong bond of friendship with the Crystal King, named King Diaphines, who accepted the young princesses as family. As it turned out, many of the kings closest advisors and nobles were all directly related to him, as he had taken a wife among the crystal ponies some years ago. Many of them even affectionly referred to him as Grandfather. The friendship between Equestria and the Crystal Empire was seen as a great success and the princesses continued to learn from the king. 

## Immortalis Defiant (92 ce)
But as the years progressed, the ponies of Equestria began to realize that their rulers were not the same, no matter how many decades passed them by, the two princeses did not age. What's more, their magic was much stronger than the average unicorn's. Alicorns had already been elevated to a near holy status among Equestrian ponies, and so many accepted their rulers as they were. But there were two groups that had more extreme reactions. One group openly worshipped the princesses as gods, calling themselves The Herd of Astros. Their attentions were awkward for the princesses, but their loyalty was unquestionable and their numbers small so they were left alone. The other group was disturbed by the princesses apparent immortality, and as they approached the end of their first century of rule, the celestial diarchy faced the first challenge to its authority. This group, known as the Immortalis Defiant, claimed it was unnatural for such long lived beings to rule over ponies who lived only a fraction of their lifespans. They rose up against the princesses reign, calling for their removal from the throne. Rather than fighting their own subjects, the princesses wanted to find a way to peacefully convince the defiant. It was Princess Celestia who made the bold decision to surrender herself to the rebels, submitting herself to their imprisonment while refusing to abdicate. Princess Luna was left to rule alone in her absence, only able to trust in her sister. Celestia was not treated well by her captors, her imprisonement lasted for three long months and the Defiant was becoming uncomfortable with their own actions. Meanwhile The Equestrian Army attempted a rescue by infiltrating their camp through a series of caverns, unaware that the caves were inhabited. They stumbled on the Gates of Tartarus and awakened its guardian the three headed dog, Cerberus. The devil dog chased his intruders into the defiant camp, where its rampage threatened to kill everypony. It was then that Celestia stepped forward and raised a defensive shield around both the soldiers and the rebels, facing Cerberus alone despite her injuries. She managed to defeat Cerberus with only a simple sleeping spell, returning him to his cave before he could injure anypony. The rebels were amazed, the very pony they had feared for her great magic had just saved them with it, and she had never once turned her horn against them during her captivity. Moved by her actions, The Defiant surrendered.

## The rise of Sombra (212 ce)
Support for Celestias rule roared in response, and the princess started taking on a more active role in her nation's leadership. On the other hoof, there is little mention of Princess Luna during this time, and what there is seems to have a disapproving tone for her lack of action. But Luna was only doing as her sister had instructed. Now that we are aware of the truth surrounding princess Luna, there is some speculation among historians that this event was the beginning of Luna's exclusion by the royal court. Following the end of the Defiant rebellion, there was a long era of peace in Equestria, more than a century passed without notable incident, and trade with their sister country Crystal Empire was more abundant than ever. It was during one of his visits to Equestria that the Crystal King Diaphines took interest in a young and talented unicorn colt by the name of Sombra. He encountered the boy at the royal library where young Sombra was studying quietly by himself. The neglected son of a nobleman, Diaphines was intrigued by Sombra's accute mind and seeming apathy. Sombra was powerful for his age and a very avid student. Intrigued by this boy, Diaphines requested to take him in as his protege. He saw within him the makings of a great wizard. Sombra's parents were delighted and instantly agreed, and so the young Sombra was taken to be raised in the Crystal Empire as the Crystal King's personal assistant.

## The Shadow War (243 ce)
Before he overtook the Crystal Empire he was not known to be cruel or evil. He was ambitious, certainly, but he was also fiercly loyal to the Crystal King and his family. It was both his ambition and his desire to aid his king that drove Sombra to begin research into dark magic, an art forbidden in equestria. But the library of the Crystal Empire contained enumerous magical texts, and even the Crystal King believed that dark magic could prove benefitial, if carefully diciplined. Whatever his intentions, Sombra was ultimately corrupted by the dark magic. Sombra went on a rampage, stealing the crystal heart, and killing not only the Crystal King but his family as well. Once he was done, he used his overwhelming dark power to enslave the crystal ponies, turning the once glimmering castle into a fortress of dark crystal. Only two survived Sombra's massacre of the royal family and they fled to Equestria to seek the aid of the princesses. Luna and Celestia were horrified to find what had happened to their dear friend and his family. And Sombra, pursuing the survivors of Diaphines' kin, ordered his enchanted army to attack. The princesses were facing their first war. Equestria's armies managed to hold back Sombra's hordes, but they knew the ponies they fought weren't in control of themselves. To stop the battle, they had to stop sombra himself and break his hold over them. 

Celestia made the decision to assault his castle and pit her powerful magic against his dark spells. Princess Luna, refusing to be left behind a second time, joined her sister in her assault. Together, the princesses descended on the Crystal Empire in the dead of night. Neither of the princesses have recounted exactly what happened in that battle. It is known that Sombra had expected their attack, and that his dark powers were overwhelming to either princess alone. But together Luna and Celestia were undefeatable, for together, they wielded the elements of harmony. Not even Sombra's great power could withstand the potent magic of the elements, a fact of which he was very much aware. And so, before the princesses had descended upon him, Sombra cast a curse that encompassed the entirity of the Crystal Empire. The battle was hard-fought, and just when the princesses thought victory was in their grasp, they watched in horror as Sombra's curse took effect and the entire Crystal Empire vanished before their eyes. The only thing that remained was Sombra's dark whisper across the bitter snows, promising to return.

---
# Volume 5: Solar Eclipse
## In the wake of the Crystal Empire (243 ce)
The princesses had returned from their battle with Sombra. Even though they defeated the evil king, to the princesses, the Crystal Empire was an utter failure. Sombra had completely stonewalled their attempts to use the elements of harmony, his curse only leaving behind remnants of his dark magic. What's more, Luna had been injured in the fight. So celestia had to take on ruling by herself while her sister recovered. Amongst the historical texts and tales, there is an emergent pattern of Celestia's popularity overtaking Luna's, as the moon princess seems to simply be left out of most court records, mentioned only as an afterthought. There is a great deal of historical evidence showing numerous events celebrating Princess Celestia and her defeat of Sombra. But not princess Luna. Perhaps this was due to her injuries, but Luna's absence at court allowed Celestia to become the focus of public opinion. With Luna absent from the throne, Celestia was forced to asume all the duties of ruling alone, placing her under a great deal of stress and scrutiny. She also suffered under depression of the Crystal Empire's loss, and Luna's absence only made this even more difficult. So when the High Pony Council offered to alleviate her of some of her royal duties, Celestia gratefully accepted. She allowed the council to take on many responsibilities to ease her burdens while her sister recovered. The council had always been the strongest supporter of the princesses diarchy, so there was no reason to distrust them. But in her distraught state, Celestia was incapable of spotting the trouble brewing amongst her proclaimed supporters. 

Princess Luna at last returned to court, she found her power greatly lessened. Celestia had allowed the council to take over many of her responsibilities, leaving her with little more than control of the night. What's more, the council did not readily give up their new-found power. Luna voiced her discontent to her sister, but the council merely stated their concern for her health as their reasoning. Many already viewed Luna as the inferior of the two royal sisters. She was not as powerful, not as wise and many believed her outcry was fueled by the vanity youth. And while she may not have been fully recovered, there was a certain amount of truth to Luna's concerns. And so, the Council began to quietly spread rumors, suggesting that Luna's injuries were more than could be seen. And that perhaps, in their fight with Sombra, the evil kings dark magic had somehow tainted the princess of the night. The council took great care to keep these rumors from reaching Celestia ears, but she was still concerned about her sister's unhappiness. She began investigating the council's actions in hopes of placating Luna's worries. However, she instead wound up discovering Luna's fears to be well founded.

Many in the council shared sympathies with The Herd of Astros, the cult that worshiped the princesses as dieties. And while most held the princesses in very high esteem, the cult was known for their extreme views. The power she had granted to the council to aid her, had also given the cult very real control over Equestria's government. Unbeknownst to her, they had implemented laws to force their radical laws unto others. Immigrants and survivors of the lost crystal empire who had fled to Equestria for safety were now being coerced into a religion that was not their own. They had even gone so far as to imprison those that refused, and all in Celestia's own name. The princess was horrified, and worse, the self-same power she had granted them, had also robbed her of the ability to stop them. It left the Princess with only one solution to restore peace and her good name. 

Rather than taking millitary action against the cult, Celestia chose to publicly adress their actions, making it known that she was aware, and did not approve. She announced that if it was in her name they carried out such atrocities, then she would abdicate her throne and leave Equestria to rule itself. For harmony was not about conforming to one belief, but embracing all beliefs equally. Celestia was the chosen focus of worship for the Herd of Astros, and her scolding was akin to excommunication. Fearing the abandonment of their diety, the cult forswore their political ambitions, restoring the princess to full ruling power. Celestia then ordered the release of all those they had been trying to convert through force and the disbanding of the herd of astros. From that day forward, the cult would spend their remaining days making amends to those they had wronged, which they vowed to do, if Celestia remained as Equestria's princess. 

## The rift (245ce)
Even though ruling now fell squarely onto the shoulders of the princesses, Luna's return to the throne went almost unnoticed. The moon princess had been away from the court for almost half a generation by this point, and the royal court had changed drastically. Celestia tried to support her sister and help her regain her authority, but the rumors of the disbanded council had done their damage, even in her own eyes, Luna was superfluous to the crown. It was Celestia who had ousted the Herd of Astros and defeated Sombra. It was Celestia who raised the life-giving sun to the cheers and admiration of Equestria. Amidst that deafening praise, Luna's voice was simply drowned out. A rift had been growing between the two sisters, that now widened into a gaping chasm. Luna became recentful and lonely, and Celestia was simply unable to understand the source of her sister's agony. Her efforts to involve Luna only seemed to amplify the moon princess' insecurities. 

The sisters had become estranged, and Luna retreated into their castle, emerging only for necessary appearances, or to carry out her duty of raising the moon. Luna's presence at court was minimal, she did not feel welcomed among the nobles and courtiers fawning over Celestia, all faces she no longer recognized. In leu of her lost time at court, Luna had been expanding on her craft, sculpting the constelations in the night sky. Astronomy was not a popular study in this time in history, which is truly a shame, as it was the nightprincess her self that invented the phases of the moon. Many of the constellations we know today were infact implemented by Princess Luna during this era, and many more were lost when she was sealed. Celestia herself has lamented that she could not match her sister's ability. Unfortunately, Luna's hard work went unnoticed except on paper. One can only imagine what it was like for her, to watch the light in ponies homes go dark before her moon had even risen. Ultimately, Luna's recentment overcame her and she abandoned her duties of controlling the night, leaving the moon in the sky.

## The long night (249ce)
The long night came at a time when Equestria could ill afford it. Harvest season was soon approaching, and without the sun, the crops would wither. Celestia tried to convince her sister to lower the moon, but Luna had locked herself away in the castle, listening to no one. And Celestia no longer had the support of the Council to assist in keep the masses assured. She attempted to use her magic to support the harvest while still trying to convince her sister. But the fears of her people began to weigh on her and she was the only one they could turn to. Reluctantly, Celestia took it upon herself to end the long night. And took control over the moon with some difficulty. The ponies of Equestria cheered in joy, but for Luna it was the last straw. In its long history, Equestria has known few eclipses. Most specifically from the time of the cataclysm, when the sun and moon ran rampant in the sky. But this was the very first solar eclipse ever vitnessed by pony kind. 

Infuriated by Celestia's actions, luna ceased control of the moon once again, placing it over the sun and darkening the sky and from its blackness emerged the tainted princess in starlight armor. Nightmare moon was born. Its said that their battle raged throughout the sky, Celestia faring pourly against the unbridled hatred empowering her sister. Legend states that Celestia used the elements of harmony to defeat Nightmare Moon, but as has been proven with the new barers of the Elements, Luna should have been purged of the evil contaminating her. Instead, Celestia was only capable of sealing her away in the moon itself, after which she never again wielded the elements. It's now theorized that no one pony can wholly control the elements of harmony, not even an Alicorn. It's also possible that there were other unknown complications for the princess, and so utilizing the elements at their strongest was impossible. On her own, Celestia could not fully control the powers of the elements, and so sealing her sister away was the best she could manage. Furthermore, once Nightmare Moon was banished, there was no possible way Celestia could ever harness the full powers of the Elements again. Whatever the reason, the end result was clear. Luna was gone and now, Celestia truly had to rule alone.

Overtime Luna was forgotten by history, as the Princess that Vanished. And Nightmare Moon became nothing more than a myth. The age itself saw a drastic change in opinion about Celestia however. Frightened by the idea that one of their beloved rulers had turned against them, the ponies of Equestria was suddenly very weary of the alicorn princess. These fears were fed by Celestia's banishment of everypony from the royal court. Celestia had fallen into mourning, the loss of her sister by her own hooves was devastating to the princess. Not only that, now Celestia had to manage the night as well as the day, and controlling the intricate details of her sister's work was magically and emotionally taxing on her. The princess had effectively withdrawn from ruling, retreating into her castle. Without Celestia's presence, the ponies of Equestria had no one to look up to for guidance, and safety.

---
# Volume 6: The Second Celestial Era
## Guided by Light (250 ce)
Equestria was in a poor state following Nightmare Moon's attempted conquest, and many communities were left in ruins. The High Pony Council was broken, made up of remnants of the Herd of Astros, whom none were willing to follow after Luna's betrayal. Assistance was scattered and poorly organized, but a pony by the name of Guiding Light had succeeded in bringing her town together in that dark time. And when others saw what she had done, they came to her asking for guidance. Seeing the hopeless state of her fellow Equestrians, Guiding Light gave everything she could to ease their suffering. Spearheading the recovery efforts, Guiding Light established a collective of ponies to travel between the various settlements and aid in rebuilding. It was a union made up of Earthponies, Unicorns and Pegasi. Each team unit was designated to aid in a specific part of the work effort. Earthponies repaired and restored the land, Unicorns would magically mend homes and cast protective wards, and the Pegasi would reign in the weather to make it more managable. Of course, rebuilding Equestria was not quite so pedestrian as this. Nightmare Moon's rampage had awakened a great many monsters from their slumber. And villages suffered under attacks from raiding Diamond Dogs as well. Ponies couldn't even travel alone safely, as bandits and thieves lurked in wait along the roads. Guiding Light arranged for her relief ponies to be trained by former soldiers, instructing them in self defence and tactical combat. Each unit was trained to maximize their talents as a whole, and they became a sort of relief army. They marched the lands providing aid and protection, bringing dicipline, order, and a conciderable amount of hope to ponies in desperate need of it. This would become the foundation for the EUP (Earthpony-Unicorn-Pegasus) guard later on.

## Celestial return (251 ce)
But while she was pleased with the restoration efforts, Guiding Light couldn't help but think of Equestria's absent monark. And the longer she traveled, the more she saw how desperately Equestria needed its ruler. She became angry with Celestia for abandoning her people, seeing her as a princess in name only. But with so many ponies turning to her for leadership, Guiding Light realized that she was in far over her head. Eventually, Guiding Light travelled to the Everfree Forest, to find that it had once again become wild and dangerous. She ventured alone to the Palace of the Royal Pony Sisters, intending to demand Celestia abdicate her rule and give her a very large piece of her mind. But when she confronted the princess, she was not met with the powerful Alicorn she had expected. Princess Celestia was as broken as Equestria itself, overcome by her guilt and grief. Of all the ponies Guiding Light had seen and helped, Celestia was the most pitiful. Seeing the princess in such a heartbroken state, Guiding Light came to a different realization, that helping the Princess, was equivalent to helping Equestria. Healing the princess' broken heart would be the same as healing the land. And so Guiding Light swore herself to the princess, not as an aid or a protector, but as a friend, these are the events that are recounted to us from Guiding Light's own memoirs. It was Guiding Light who brought the princess back to her people, snapping Celestia out of her grief. By reminding her of her love for her subjects, and their dire need of her rule. She convinced the ponies of Equestria that Celestia needed them as much as they needed her. The relief army she had built became the protective pony platoons of the EUP, to serve as Celestia's guard. And with Guiding Light's support, Celestia once again brought Equestria to an age of peace and prosperity. After the restoration was completed, the EUP held a celebration to mark what they call the First Celestial Year of Peace. It was held on the aniversary of Nightmare Moon's defeat. Guiding Light was by Celestia's side, as together, they held the very first Summer Sun Celebration. 

## Canterlot Restoration (252 ce - 350 ce)
Guiding Light would remain Celestia's confidant until the end of her days, but not many ponies realized the impact she had on not just the Princess, but Equestria's future. During her time at Celestia's side, Guiding Light began a project that would take the entirety of her life to complete. She took it upon herself to oversee the construction of King Alloy's Castle, which had fallen into ruin before even Discord's rise. As the unifier of the waring unicorns, Alloy served as an example to Guiding Light, who wanted to bring his ideals of equality and justice back to the ponies of Equestria. And with Celestia's support, this reconstructed castle would become the new capital city of Equestria and the foundation of Equestria we know today. This bright new era, brought together by Guiding Light and Celestia is known as the Canterlot Restoration.

When Guiding Light finally passed, Celestia personalyl oversaw her friend's funeral. A monument was built to her in the royal gardens of Canterlot which can be visited even today. And while Celestia was saddened by the loss of her friend, she never again fell into the despair she had known after losing her sister. She instead continued her steadfast guardianship and guidance of Equestria, becoming a wiser, stronger ruler.

## A new age of exploration (351 ce)
Equestria's spirit was revived, and Celestia encouraged her subjects to venture out as they had in the past. Having been focused on their internal dilemmas for so long, they had fallen out of contact with the nations they held alliances with, and wanted to renew their friendships. A new age of exploration had begun, that would serve as Equestria's catapult into the future, and among the notable names of this era was an unlikely pony who had become the most infamous explorer of them all. A pegasus pony, by the name of Margarine. When Equestria's rebuilding was complete, they once again took to the sea, reviving the designs of the ancient spellships used in the past. Equestria's enhancements in magic and technology made the ships stronger than ever before, and so many began voyages south and east. But there was one ship's captain with greater ambition, and worked tirelessly to make his ship as strong as it could be. Margarine was the only explorer willing to attempt the dangerous voyage over Eternity's crossing, which many ships had failed in the past. As a result, it took some time before he could convince a crew to follow him. And when he sailed away, many had expected him to fail as the others have. But Margarine was posessed of an unusual a stubborn streak, and an uncanny understanding of weather systems. 

## Crossing the ocean (412 ce)
Margarine was the first pony to successfully navigate Eternity's crossing and reach the shores of the five Kirin kingdoms. Well, the first known pony anyway. As Margarine would discover, the returning ship with the Kirin visitors and the ponies who accompanied them, The Mikomi, had in fact made it across, but their ship had been so badly damaged that they could never hope to rebuild it. And so, the Equestrians were taken in, much as they had done for the Kirin, and their descendants lived on in the kingdoms. Because of them, the Kirin rulers were more than happy to accept Celestia's offer of friendship, and sent back with Margarine one of their own princes as an ambasador, to return the bones of those ponies to their home soil at long last.

Margarine was hailed as a hero when he returned to Equestria. But he didn't stay long enough to enjoy the privilege. No sooner had he come home before he was once again plotting his next course. It's said that while navigating Eternity's crossing, Margarine glimpsed what appeared to be a city within the heart of the storm. And afterward, he was forever driven to try and reach it. And while Margarine was sailing, there were other explorers traveling over land. They established first contact with the Perjerans of Germaneigh and the boars of Tuskaneigh. Of course, not all of these nations were welcoming, but there was never any want for open war. All nations were better off with the new trading routes established. Celestia wasted no time forming alliances with those countries discovered, but not all nations were open to the princess' negotiations. 

## The Saddle Arabian Negotiations (435 ce)
While forging her alliances, Celestia attempted to establish a solid peace with the nearby Saddle Arabia, whom Equestria had known strained relations with ever since their first war. Unfortunately, Celestia's appearance to the royals of Saddle Arabia was not welcomed. As had been discovered by Enduring Patience in centuries past, the Saddle arabians had at one point been the slaves of the Alicorn kingdom. Now that Equestria was being openly ruled by an Alicorn, Saddle Arabia had taken a hostile stance towards their neighbors and refused Equestria entry of any sort. Saddle Arabia had become a powerful country in their own right, so if another war sparked, the allies of both nations were bound to be dragged in. This was an outcome neither country desired, but the Saddle arabians refused to budge on their stance, and kept their borders closed. It seemed that peace with Saddle Arabia would never happen so long as Celestia ruled. Because of their sad history, the Arabians were motivated by fear and distrust, and were unwilling to even approach the table of discussion. Celestia made it known she preferred a peaceful resolution, and in the past had shown her more than willing to sacrifice herself for the sake of others. But Celestia's preferred choice of tactic would not work on an opponent unwilling to even speak with her. Instead, the princess took an agressive stance towards saddle arabia, openly challenging the sultan to single combat to resolve their issues. If he refused, he would appear as a coward and his allies would abandon him. The sultan had no choice but to accept Celestia's challenge, and the two of them finally came face to face. 

History marks the Sultan as the victor of that battle, but Celestia's intention had been to speak with him, not fight him, nor did she simply surrender the fight. Had she thrown the battle, the sultan would have been insulted, leaving no hope of resolution. Instead, she agreed to the sultan's demands of a battle without magic, and fought him with honor to the very best of her ability. This earned the sultan's respect and when the battle concluded. It was the sultan himself who proposed they remain and discuss the futures of their countries together. Having faced Celestia, the sultan was able to see that the princess was not the same as the Alicorns that had enslaved his people long ago. He expressed his dispair to her and his desire to free his people from their ancient fears. To do this, Celestia proposed that they enter the Alicorn sanctuary burried in the desert. So that the sultan could put that fear to an end with his own two hooves. The sultan agreed, and with Celestia's magic, the seal of the ancent temple was lifted, letting them finally discover what lay within. 

## The Alicorn Repentance (435 ce)
As has since been learned, the Alicorns had used the lands of saddle arabia for their experiments, and the inhabitants were used as a labor force. The Alicorn sanctuary documented this, but it also recounted the remorse of those Alicorns in charge of the magical experiments. They had devastated a once beautiful land, and brought great suffering to a species they had cruely assumed to be inferior. And so the Alicorns had spent their remaining days fashioning a spell to undo all the damage they had done. Restoring the desert to the once lush paradise it had once been. But this spell of restoration had never been activated and was left behind when the cataclysm struck. When all of the remnants of the Alicorn kingdom had vanished. It was a final apology to the horses of Saddle Arabia, with a message stating their hope that one day they would be able to use it. This revelation came as quite a shock to the sultan. It changed the history of his people and all their past assumptions. 

What the alicorns had left them was a great gift, but the irony was that it was far too late for the gift to work. The horses of Saddle Arabia had learned to survive in the harsh desert over countless centuries, adapting themselves to the arid region and thriving in a place where no life should be able to. While the restoration spell might've turned the desert into a paradise, his people would once again have to learn to survive in an all new environment. Their struggle of the long centuries would become meaningless. And so, at the request at the sultan, Princess Celestia once again sealed the Alicorn Sanctuary, only this time with an exception. Knowing the great power contained within the sanctuary, the sultan knew that others would attempt to take and misuse its power. And so the sultan dedicated his royal line to the protection of the sanctuary and its great magic. And with this decision also came the peace Celestia had been hoping for. Saddle Arabia and Equestria entered into an alliance and has since that day been our nation's closest friends.

---
# The Dragon King
## The Germaneigh Griphonia war (734 ce)
Many decades passed after Celestia's challenge with the Sultan of Saddle Arabia, and the world was mostly peaceful. But while Equestria remained free of war, the same could not be said for her neighbors. Germaneigh and Griphonia were on poor terms, both being nations of proud warriors, and conflicts inevitably broke out between them. Other nations preferred to distance themselves from the fight, remaining strictly uninvolved. This limited their battles to a few locations, and as the Griphons preferred to use their flight to their advantage, they primarily chose the mountains of the Schwarzwlder bordering Germaneigh. This was an old and unexplored region, known for extreme weather, as it had been covered by enormous black clouds for longer than anyone could remember. But the battles between Germaneigh and the griphons disturbed the area, causing a great many avalanches and opening caves that had been buried for eons. And then one day, the clouds covering the Schwarzwlder disappeared, gracing them with sunlight for the first time in ages. It was not realized at the time, but the war between the griphons and the perjeran knights, had awakened something that had been sleeping since an untold age. And once the snows began to melt, there was nothing left to restrain it. 

The mountains of Schwarzwlder were home to many fearsome dragons, but none as infamous as Bahamut. Also called Ragnarok by the Perjerans of Germaneigh, Bahamut was a Dragon Wizard that once terrorized their lands. His greed so intense as to make him steal from his own brethren, declaring himself as their king. This angered the other dragons, and they fought against their brother deep within the Schwarzwlder. Their rampaging battle brought the mountains down around them and Bahamut was trapped between several tons of snow and stone. Unable to free himself, or even move, Bahamut fell into a deep slumber, creating the black clouds that would cover the mountains for countless generations. But the warring between the Perjerans and the Griphons had disturbed the Schwarzwlder, rousing Bahamut from his ancient sleep. Because he had been in hibernation for so long, Bahamut had grown immense with his age, bigger than any dragon in recorded history and his greed had grown with him. Bahamut immediately set about rebuilding his hoard using dragon magic to enslave those he came across, and force them into servitude. Within a month, Germaneigh was in his claws. The nobles of Germaneigh had escaped south overseas, to the land of their allies, the Zebras. 

They regrouped their forces and prepared for an assault on their own kingdom, the zebras pledging their allegianed assistance. The nation of Zebrica had once been an expansive territory, ruled by a peaceful council of many tribes. They posessed a proud and honorable culture with ties to ancient magics. However, the joint assault led against Bahamut by their allies proved disastrous, succeeding only in drawing the dragon's attention. They were defenceless against the powerful sorcery of dragon magic, and after enslaving their invading forces, Bahamut turned them on their own homeland. The unified kingdoms of Zebrica were razed to the ground by friendly swords and dragon flame. Even to this day, they haven't recovered from that devastation. It was only after this tremendous loss, that the nations of the known world realized; The dragon king would not be satisfied with the plunder of one kingdom. An emergency summit of leaders was called, with Equestria serving as its center. Princess Celestia was known to devote entire decades to her research on unusual topics, among which dragon lore was included. Protected behind spellstone barriers, they poured over accumulated knowledge in the archives, seeking a weakness to exploit, and it was in her many volumes that Celestia came upon the name of another dragon, said to share a bitter rivalry with Bahamut, the dragon Terask of Prance.

## Sibling Rivalry (735 ce)
The council appealed to the she-dragon, promising riches in exchange for her help. Dragons are wholly individualistic creatures, and can typically be coerced into cooperation for a steep contribution to their hoards. But even Terask would not challenge her brother Bahamut, despite the riches they promised. Instead she made a wager, if they could bring her a relic from the city within Eternity's Crossing, then and only then would she aid them. Suffice it to say that Terask thought such an endeavor to be impossible, the vortex of Eternity's crossing could not be pierced by ship or magic, and any who tried would die in the attempt. Or so she thought. Princess Celestia is the only known individual to have ever pierced the barrier of Eternity's crossing. Records show her taking a spellship within sight of the vortex, before flying into the sky alone and out of sight. A moment later there was a brilliant flash of rainbow in the sky and the walls of the vortex trembled. 

Given recent events, it's popularily theorised by historians that Celestia used a sonic rainboom to pierce the storm. But this is highly unlikely, none of the princesses have ever displayed the capability to perform a sonic rainboom, which was only proved possible in the last few years. It's more likely the princess had some sort of magical means, but whatever that was, she has never divulged the truth of that matter. Celestia remained within the vortex for nearly two days, then quite suddenly the winds of Eternity's crossing calmed and Celestia flew safely back. Not a moment after her hooves touched down on the deck of the ship, the vortex began anew with even greater force. The princess has never spoken of what happened, but whatever her trial there she returned victorious and carrying with her a relic of the ruined city which we now know to be named Enmicar(?). Presenting the relic to Terask, the great dragon now had no choice but to aid the council as she had promised. Confiding with them in secret, she presented them with a strategy as well as an item from her hoard. For the sake of maintaining secresy, the council spoke nothing of it afterwards, but their looks of displeasure were well noted in history. As Terask had forced on them perhaps the biggest gambit of them all, as it put all nations at risk.

When Bahamut was at last tearing down the magical barriers protecting Equestria, the council stepped forward to confront him. Rather than see their countries torn asunder by his enslaved armies, the world leaders issued a direct challenge to the dragon king. If they lost, they would surrender without dispute, offering him a golden crown should he win. Bahamut was immediately suspicious. He was aware of the council's colaboration with his sister Terask, but the opportunity was simply too great to simply refuse. But instead of the crown they seemed so eager to give him, he demanded something else. A contribution of good faith, to prove their sincerity. He demanded the crown of Princess Luna. Celestia had kept the tiara as a memento of her beloved sister, and relinquishing such a precious a thing to the monstrous Bahamut was unthinkable. But without it, Bahamut would not accept their challenge and continue his rampage. And so the Princess offered up her sister's crown as the symbol of victory. It was a battle hard fought, the unified leaders working together to fight for the freedom of all, Celestia included. But it was not a battle they could win, Bahamut was too powerful and he bested the council as if they were figures in a boardgame. Knowing they would be defeated, Celestia used her magic to desperately hurl the golden crown at Bahamut only to have it melt under the flames of his breath. Confident he'd beaten their trick, bahamut spared the council just long enough for them to watch as he claimed his tribute, placing Luna's crown on his pinkie like a ring. 

But this, was Bahamut's falling. With Terask's guidance, they had laid their trap with greater subtlety than the dragon king had realized. The gem adorning Luna's crown had been replaced with one from Terask's hoard, a soul stone enchanted with dragon fire that would capture the spirit of who-so-ever should wear it, the same gem that had adorned the golden crown they had first offered to Bahamut. This was the same magic Bahamut used to enslave his armies, and with Terask's help had been turned against him by the council. With his soul bound in the gem Bahamut's greed was taken from him and his immense size with it. And what's more, he was compelled to serve whoever posessed the soulstone and released all those he had enslaved with his magic. The dragon king was defeated, but those that had suffered the most under his wrath yet demanded he pay for his crimes. Some wanted him to remain enslaved and bound in service. But to give any nation control over so powerful a dragon was unthinkable, others still wanted to put him to death. Eventually it was Terask herself who pleaded on Bahamut's behalf, much as she dispised him, he was still her brother, and she mocked the council for so easily stooping to the same cruelty. In the end, Terask entrusted her brother's fate to Celestia, not all of the council agreed with this, and Equestria maintained strained relations with those countries even to this day. The terms of Bahamut's penance are held in strict confidence, so how and where he's kept are unknown. 

## The Celestial Council (741 ce)
But despite the reluctance of certain leaders on this one matter, it was the unified efforts of all that had brought about the defeat of the dragon king. The emergency summit they had created to resolve the crisis was to be maintained not only for dire events, but for the mutual benefit and support of all, an international council of leaders. Fairly shared and fairly ruled, this was the formal establishment of what would eventually be called, the Celestial Council. And their first actions were to aid in the restoration of those nations devastated by the dragon king's conquest. Germaneigh had finally learned to put aside its pride and welcomed the assistance of others. Working together brought in new ideas and new trade. Sadly, this prosperous new beginning could not be shared with Zebrica. The devastation wrought on the Zebras' homeland was more dreadful than any other, as if the earth itself had been poisoned. Not even the council could find an answer to this, so they instead offered refuge. The zebras accepted and began to spread far and wide across all the known lands of the world. And while no solution have yet been discovered, many Zebras still talk of one day returning to their ancient home when a cure has at last been found.

## Industrial Revolutional (1042 ce - 1265 ce)
The scars of Bahamut's rampage began to fade, and the new unity brought on by the council inspired peoples of all races to begin co-mingling. And with this great sharing of minds came a new age of technological inspiration in the year 792 of the second celestial era (1042 ce), the world would see its first ever steam powered engine. The first rail line was used to bridge the great distance between Equestria and Germaneigh, crossing through the heavy snow of the Schwarzwlder. It took nearly three decades to complete, but the success of the railline allowed for safe and rapid transport between the two nations, opening trade in a way never seen. Almost immediately after, plans for the construction of railroad lines were laid out between countries and major cities. Only in recent decades have we seen the inclusion of new railways to smaller townships such as Appleoosa. Then just over a hundred ago (1140 ce), a family of seed collectors came to Canterlot in roaming and was left a portion of land by Celestia herself. This land happened to be part of the princess' own holdings, retained from the time the royal palace recided within the heart of the everfree forest. The Apple family gratefully accepted the land. And over time, it became the small bustling town of Ponyville, and while seemingly a small item, the establishment of the township of Ponyville is what brings us into the current age.

It was the development of the raillines that began a steady wave of technological advances for Equestria that have slowly been building through the last two centuries. The historians have called this age in advancement an industrial revolution but it's really only the tip of the iceberg. In the last few years alone, we've seen the return of Princess Luna and the Crystal Empire, Discord's revival and reformation, the first confirmed Sonic Rainboom, the wedding of Princess Cadence, and the crowning of Twilight Sparkle, the princess of friendship. We're truly fortunate to be living in such a momentous era, and I personally can't wait to see what other historical moments await Equestria in the future.


